<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!--

       Copyright 2006-2026 the original author or authors.

       Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
       you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
       You may obtain a copy of the License at

          https://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

       Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
       distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
       WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
       See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
       limitations under the License.

-->
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Transitional//EN"
  "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-transitional.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en" lang="en">
<head>
  <title>Introduction to MyBatis Generator</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="mbgstyle.css" />
</head>
<body>
<h1>Introduction to MyBatis Generator</h1>
<p>MyBatis Generator (MBG) is a code generator for MyBatis <a target="_blank" href="https://mybatis.org">MyBatis</a>.
 It will generate code for all versions of MyBatis.
 It will introspect a database
 table (or many tables) and will generate artifacts that can be used to
 access the table(s).  This lessens the initial nuisance of setting up objects and configuration
 files to interact with database tables.  MBG seeks to make a major impact on the large
 percentage of database operations that are simple CRUD (Create, Retrieve, Update, Delete).  You will
 still need to hand code SQL and objects for join queries, or stored procedures.
</p>
<p>MBG generates code in different styles, and for different languages, depending on how it is configured. For example,
MBG can generate Java or Kotlin code. And MBG can generate MyBatis3 compatible XML - although that is now considered
a legacy use of MBG. The newer styles of generated code do not require XML. The primary mode of configuration is
to select a "target runtime" on a &lt;context&gt; configuration element. The default target runtime is
"MyBatis3DynamicSql" which will generate code that depends on the
  <a href="https://mybatis.org/mybatis-dynamic-sql/">MyBatis Dynamic SQL</a> library.
</p>

<p>Depending on how it is configured, MyBatis Generator may generate:</p>
<ul>
  <li>Java or Kotlin classes that match the table structure.  This may include:
    <ul>
      <li>A Java class to match all fields in a table (MyBatis3DynamicSql or MyBatis3Simple runtimes)</li>
      <li>A Java record to match all fields in a table (Any Java runtime configured to generate records)</li>
      <li>A Kotlin data class to match all fields in a table (MyBatis3Kotlin runtime)</li>
      <li>A Java class to match the primary key of the table (if there is a primary key) (Legacy MyBatis3 runtime)</li>
      <li>A Java class to match the non-primary key fields of the table (except BLOB fields) (Legacy MyBatis3 runtime)</li>
      <li>A Java class to include the BLOB fields of a table (if the table has BLOB fields) (Legacy MyBatis3 runtime)</li>
      <li>A Java class to enable dynamic selects, updates, and deletes (Legacy MyBatis3 runtime)</li>
    </ul>
    <p>In the legacy MyBatis3 runtime, there is an inheritance relationship between the model classes as appropriate.
       Note that the generator may be configured to generate different types of POJO hierarchies -
       for example, you may choose to generate a single domain object for each table if you so
       desire.</p>
  </li>
  <li>A class to support MyBatis Dynamic SQL (in the newer runtimes) that holds
    table and column information about a database table.
  </li>
  <li>MyBatis3 Compatible SQL Map XML Files (legacy runtimes only). MBG generates SQL for simple
   CRUD functions on each table in a configuration.  The generated SQL statements include:
    <ul>
      <li>insert</li>
      <li>update by primary key</li>
      <li>update by example (using a dynamic where clause)</li>
      <li>delete by primary key</li>
      <li>delete by example (using a dynamic where clause)</li>
      <li>select by primary key</li>
      <li>select by example (using a dynamic where clause)</li>
      <li>count by example</li>
    </ul>
   <p>There are different variations of these statements depending on the
   structure of the table (for example, if the table doesn't have a primary key,
   then MBG will not generate an update by primary key function).</p>
  </li>
  <li>Java or Kotlin client classes, interfaces, and Kotlin extension methods that make appropriate use of the
    above objects.  The generation of client classes is optional.
    MBG will generate a mapper interface that works with the MyBatis 3.x mapper infrastructure</li>
</ul>

<p>The newer runtimes (MyBatis3DynamicSql and MyBatis3Kotlin) produce code that relies on
  <a href="https://mybatis.org/mybatis-dynamic-sql/">MyBatis Dynamic SQL</a>.
  The generated code is far smaller, and far more capable, than code generated by the legacy runtimes (MyBatis3
  and MyBatis3Simple). We recommend all users upgrade to one of the newer runtimes.
</p>

<p>MyBatis generator is designed to run well in an iterative development environment, and
  can be included as an Ant task, or a Maven plugin, in a continuous build environment.
  Important things to note when running MBG iteratively include:
</p>
<ol>
  <li>MBG will automatically merge XML files if there is an existing file
      with the same name as the newly generated XML file.  MBG will not overwrite
      any custom changes you make to the XML files it generates.
      You can run it over and over again without fear of losing custom changes to you XML.
      MBG will replace any XML elements that were generated in a previous run.
      </li>
  <li>MBG can merge Java files if there is an existing file with the same name as a generated Java file.
    MBG will not overwrite and Java code that you add to a generated file. This is a new feature
    in version 2.0.0 (previously, this was only supported when running the generator in Eclipse).
    To enable this new feature, you must set a flag on your runner, and add JavaParser to the classpath.
    See the "running" pages for details. When running in Eclipse, the Java merge function is activated by default.
  </li>
  <li>MBG will <b>not</b> merge Kotlin files, it can either overwrite existing files
      or save newly generated files with a different unique name.  If you make changes
      to the generated Kotlin files and run MBG iteratively you will have to
      merge the changes by hand.
  </li>
</ol>

<h2>Running with Eclipse</h2>
<p>We publish an Eclipse feature that integrates the generator into an Eclipse based IDE and adds a few user interface
  enhancements that make the generator somewhat easier to run. The generator can be run with a custom launcher,
  the configuration DTD is integrated into Eclipse's XML validator, and we contribute a full user manual for the
  generator to the Eclipse help system.
</p>
<p>The Eclipse feature can be found on the Eclipse marketplace here:
  <a href="https://marketplace.eclipse.org/content/mybatis-generator">https://marketplace.eclipse.org/content/mybatis-generator</a>.
</p>
<h2>Dependencies</h2>
<p>MBG has the following dependencies:</p>
  <ul>
    <li>Java 17 or above</li>
    <li>A JDBC driver that implements the
      DatabaseMetaData interface, especially the <code>getColumns</code> and
      <code>getPrimaryKeys</code> methods
    </li>
    <li>JSpecify (org.jspecify:jspecify)</li>
    <li>Jakarta Commons Logging (commons-logging:commons-logging)</li>
    <li>If you enable the Java merge function, then JavaParser (com.github.javaparser:javaparser-core)
      is a dependency
    </li>
  </ul>

<h2>Generated Code Dependencies</h2>
<p>MBG will generate code in different styles. This is controlled by the "targetRuntime" attribute of a
    &lt;context&gt; element. All runtimes generate code that is dependent on
    <a href="https://mybatis.org/mybatis-3/">MyBatis</a>.
    Some of the runtimes generate code that is also dependent on
    <a href="https://mybatis.org/mybatis-dynamic-sql/">MyBatis Dynamic SQL</a>.
    The following table shows the required dependencies in the generated code.</p>

<table>
    <tr>
        <th>Runtime</th>
        <th>MyBatis Generator Version</th>
        <th>MyBatis Version</th>
        <th>MyBatis Dynamic SQL Version</th>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>MyBatis3, MyBatis3Simple</td>
        <td>Any</td>
        <td>3.0+</td>
        <td>N/A</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>MyBatis3DynamicSQL</td>
        <td>1.3.6 - 1.3.7</td>
        <td>3.4.2+</td>
        <td>1.1.0 - 1.2.1</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>MyBatis3DynamicSQL, MyBatis3Kotlin</td>
        <td>1.4.0</td>
        <td>3.4.2+</td>
        <td>1.1.3+</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>MyBatis3DynamicSQL</td>
        <td>1.4.1 - 1.4.2</td>
        <td>3.4.2+</td>
        <td>1.3.1+</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>MyBatis3Kotlin</td>
        <td>1.4.1 - 1.4.2</td>
        <td>3.4.2+</td>
        <td>1.4.0+</td>
    </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>MyBatis3DynamicSql, MyBatis3Kotlin</td>
    <td>2.0.0+</td>
    <td>3.5.5+</td>
    <td>2.0.0+</td>
  </tr>
</table>

<p>Unless specifically disabled, runtimes that generate Java will also add a <code>jakarta.annotation.Generated</code>
  annotation to generated Java fields, methods, inner classes, etc. This annotation is used by the Java merge function.
  This adds a compile time dependency of "jakarta.annotation:jakarta.annotation-api".
</p>

<h2>Support</h2>
<p>Support for MyBatis Generator is provided through the MyBatis user mailing list.
You may subscribe to or view the mailing list through Google code here:</p>

<blockquote>
  <p>
  <a target="_blank" href="https://groups.google.com/group/mybatis-user">https://groups.google.com/group/mybatis-user</a>
  </p>
</blockquote>

<p>If you think you have found a bug, please ask a question about it on the user list first,
before creating a new ticket.  If you find a bug, or have a new feature request,
you may open a new issue at GitHub here:</p>

<blockquote>
  <p>
  <a target="_blank" href="https://github.com/mybatis/generator/issues">
    https://github.com/mybatis/generator/issues
  </a>
  </p>
</blockquote>

</body>
</html>
